hi everyone my name is saily and i'm one
of the expert toefl teachers here at e2
language
and welcome to today's live lesson
in today's class we are going to look at
essay writing
for the independent writing task of the
tofu
so make sure you watch the video till
the end so that you know how to get a 30
on 30 for this task
so we'll start off by planning the essay
together
then we'll write it and
you can help me revise the essay at the
end
all right so here's our question for
today
as you can see the directions are always
the same
so they'll always say read the question
below
give yourself 30 minutes to plan write
and revise your essay
typically an effective response will
contain
a minimum of 300 words so this will
always be the same
and it's essentially telling you to
write try and write at least 300 words
and you'll have 30 minutes to basically
write your essay but they're also
asking you to plan and revise and
include that time within these 30
minutes
and that's exactly what we're gonna do
today and then they'll
basically tell you what your question
for the day is
so most questions in the toefl ask you
whether you
agree or disagree with a certain
statement
and that's exactly what they're asking
us to do here
so the question says do you agree or
disagree with the following statement
private vehicles should be banned from
commercial districts
in major cities use specific reasons and
examples
to support your answer so that's a
pretty straightforward question yeah
once you've read it understood it the
first thing you need to do
when you're planning an essay is to ask
yourself
do i agree or disagree
with this statement so in this case
if i agree with the statement that means
i think
that private vehicles should be banned
from commercial districts
in major cities and if i disagree
i think that private vehicles should not
be banned
from commercial districts in major
cities
so you can't stop at that once you've
decided
which side you're going to choose you
need to ask yourself
why why do i agree with this statement
and you need to think of at least two
reasons because these two reasons will
become
your two body paragraphs so here are my
reasons for agreeing with the statement
so one reason is because it will reduce
traffic in the cities because there will
be fewer cars on the road
the other reason is because obviously
there'll be less pollution if there are
fewer cars on the streets
this will lower gas emissions so of
course that is good for the
environment now if i look at the other
side and if i want to disagree with it
i would argue that if we suddenly
ban our private vehicles in cities
we'll sort of end up increasing the
pressure on infrastructure
and public transport and the public
transport system
probably won't be able to cope with this
pressure
unexpected pressure and that can
collapse so that's obviously
not a good thing we don't want that to
happen the other reason would be
that small businesses would end up
suffering because they rely
on the use of private vehicles
for maybe their employees use it maybe
their suppliers use it
whatever the case might be so we don't
want them to end up suffering
so now that i'm thinking about it i feel
like i can use
better vocab and i have you know ideas
that i can develop
further under the disagree
sort of area so so for these reasons
i think in this case i'm going to
disagree
and say that private vehicles should be
banned
from commercial districts in major
cities all right
now that i've decided that i'm going to
disagree
i sort of need to start thinking about
how i will structure my essay
so i usually use this fixed essay
structure
for any essay topic that they throw at
us
so let's have a look your your essay
should always start
with an introduction so the first
paragraph always needs to be
an introduction within the introduction
your first sentence should be a
background sentence
what that means is it should sort of
give the reader an idea of
what uh sort of area you're going to be
talking about
or what your essay is going to be
generally related to
for the next sentence you just want to
reword the prompt
so whatever the question statement was
you just want to paraphrase it
use your own words to restate that
prompt
and the third sentence needs to be a
thesis statement
so in the thesis statement you basically
let the reader know
what you're going to do in the essay so
you need to
tell them what your opinion is whether
you agree or disagree
and tell them why you agree or disagree
and
basically that you will be discussing
the reasons for
your opinion so
i'll show you exactly what i mean in
just a bit so then it'll make a little
more sense
so that's basically your introduction it
can like based on the structure
it probably will be three sentence long
but even if it's a little bit
longer four or five sentences is okay
more than five sentences
you're probably spending too much time
on the introduction at that point
so try and keep it between three to five
sentences long
so the next paragraph is a body
paragraph
so in your essay you can have two to
three body paragraphs and that's
what you should aim for and remember
that each body paragraph
should contain only one main idea so it
should be making one point
so let's have a look at the structure of
the body paragraph the first body
paragraph of our essay
so the first sentence here is where you
sort of let the reader know
what the main idea of this paragraph is
going to be
then you explain it in further detail
then you give an example like a concrete
real world example
of that point that you're making and for
your final sentence
you want to link back to the main point
so you can think of it as like
a conclusion for that paragraph and
again when i show you what i've written
it'll all sort of start to make sense
so your second body paragraph will
follow exactly the same structure
but of course you'll be making a
different and a separate point here
so make sure you have two distinct ideas
so that
there's no overlap and your structure
doesn't end up being a little bit
um sort of hard to follow so
each point should be separate and
distinct from each other you don't want
to
be repetitive so two body paragraphs if
you have the time
or if you feel like you have more to say
then you can
add a third body paragraph but for today
i'm only going to use
two body paragraphs and finally
write conclusion so your conclusion is
the last
paragraph of your essay and
basically you don't want to introduce
any new ideas in the conclusion
you want to like like the name suggests
you want to conclude your argument so
you want to summarize
your argument whatever you said
throughout the essay you want to restate
the reasons
for your opinion and that's pretty much
it so again you want to keep this short
and sweet
two or three sentences at the most
so this is the overall structure that we
will be following today
and i'll take you through each paragraph
separately
and i want you to write an essay along
with me so grab that pen and paper and
we'll get started
all right first off the introduction
here's my background sentence
as the global population has increased
significantly
so has the number of cars on our roads
so again here i'm just talking about
something
you know vaguely related to the number
of cars on our roads
now the next thing that i want to do is
reword the prompt
so remember our prompt said something
about banning private vehicles
so i want to say this dramatic rise has
led to the suggestion that large urban
areas
should prohibit private vehicles
and finally my thesis statement will say
i firmly believe that the implementation
of such a policy would have disastrous
consequences
for two main reasons which i will
explore in further detail
in this essay so here i'm letting the
reader know
that i disagree with this suggestion and
i'll tell you why
in this essay all right now it's your
turn to write the introduction
make sure you include all these three
sentences in the same order
you have three minutes go
how did you go were you able to include
all the sentences
and did you have enough time to write
the introduction
let me know in the comment section so
our introduction's done
now let's look at body paragraph
one right so when i was planning i
said that i think it'll put a lot of
pressure
on public transport and the city's
infrastructure
if we were to ban these vehicles
so that's the point i'm going to make in
this paragraph
here is my first sentence banning cast
from the city center
of a number of urban areas will
eventually cause
additional problems due to insufficient
infrastructure
all right so this is basically the point
that i'm trying to make here
now i'll explain in further detail what
these additional problems
are and give examples
so let me explain as tens of thousands
of commuters
who previously relied on using their own
cars
will suddenly be required to find
alternative methods of transport
to enter the city existing public
transport facilities
and infrastructure will be overwhelmed
time for an example in the case of
commuter trains
for example simply adding extra services
will not work if the train stations
cannot cope with these new commuters
especially as most of them need to enter
and exit the city
during peak hour
so here we want to give a concrete
example like this where
i'm specifically talking about commuter
trains
so of course when you talk about public
transport
you're thinking trains buses met the
metro
but you have to sort of get more
specific and look at
sort of one example in detail for this
sentence the example sentence that is
now finally i want to link back to my
main point
so i'll say therefore abruptly banning
cars
without additional investment in other
services
is a recipe for disaster
so where you can here i've used um a
little bit of
like an idiom a recipe for disaster
means
something that is going to end badly so
it's going to have
um sort of bad consequences or adverse
consequences
and this is like a phrasal verb so try
and use these if you can
it's good to learn a few in advance so
that you can sort of slip them in
into your essay on test day
all right now it's your turn and you
have 10 minutes to write your first body
paragraph
i'll see you on the other side
well done two down two more to go
let's look at our second body paragraph
so i decided that my second main point
would be that a ban of private vehicles
from this
commercial districts in the city would
adversely affect
businesses and essentially businesses
would suffer because of this
and this is going to be my main point
for my second body paragraph
i'll be following the same structure
four sentence structure
so it it can be four sentences or it
could be
five or six that depends on how you want
to express and explain your point
but yeah try and keep it to like four to
six sentences don't go overboard
you don't want one paragraph to be much
longer than the other
so four to six sentences is good
so my first sentence
or my topic sentence is
there will also be devastating economic
consequences
as many businesses in the heart of the
city
rely on private vehicles to deliver
supplies
on a daily basis so this is just like a
nicer way i've
used like a few uncommon words to
express the same idea
that i discussed with you guys just a
while ago
now i'm going to explain this further
i'm going to explain what these economic
consequences are
without this form of transport these
businesses
will not be able to conduct their
day-to-day operations
time for an example it would be
particularly difficult
for restaurants and florists who require
fresh
produce and flowers to be delivered
every day
so again i'm getting very specific i'm
talking about
two businesses in particular restaurants
and florists
because they sort of rely on deliveries
daily deliveries being made
so that you know they can keep supplying
fresh produce and flowers
to their customers finally i'm going to
link back
and sort of reiterate the point which is
while a ban on private cars may improve
traffic and lower pollution it is also
likely to cause
businesses to fail and increase
unemployment
so here i'm trying to use while which is
a subordinating conjunction
i sort of want to sneak that in there
and sort of let them know that
okay there are a couple of benefits to
banning vehicles
in city centers but on the flip side
businesses will end up failing and that
has economic consequences
which again i'm being specific about now
and one of those economic consequences
would be an increase in unemployment
again it's time for you to do some
writing you can use the same ideas and
points that i've been using
but if you have a different point of
view don't be afraid of expressing your
own ideas
because you probably have a better way
of explaining your
own ideas and more examples for those
anyway
so go ahead and write that second body
paragraph
again you have 10 minutes to do this
all right guys we're almost there time
to wrap it up with a conclusion
all right let's make this quick and easy
two sentences
first one i'm trying to summarize my
argument here
which is basically that banning these
vehicles is a bad idea
so i'm going to say despite the rise in
ownership of
private vehicles and the resulting urban
issues
banning these vehicles is not a viable
option
why here i'm going to summarize my
reasons
doing so would mean that public
transport services
would not be able to cope with the
higher demand
and many companies relying on the use of
private cars
would struggle to run their businesses
successfully
and that's it i've written my essay
now it's time for you to finish yours
you have three minutes to write your
conclusion
and that's it we did it we wrote an
entire
essay in 26 minutes and mine
was about 317 words long
which is obviously more than what they'd
asked for they said minimum 300 so
that's perfect
hopefully you were able to write at
least 300 words
using this structure here's the full
sample
well we're not quite done yet so we took
about two minutes to plan
we took 26 minutes to write our essay
but we're still left with two minutes
can you guess what we're going to do
next
that's right we're going to revise our
essay
so i've deliberately added six errors to
this essay
and i want you guys to find these arrows
and correct them for me
you have two minutes to do this
how many did you get here are all the
six
errors with their corrections
so the first one was in the very first
line
where we said as the global population
has increased significantly
so has the number of cars between these
two clauses
we do need a comma when you're using as
kind of like since so you could also say
since the population has increased
significantly
so when you're using as like sins you
need a comma
at the end of that clause
the next one was in the second paragraph
second line
as tens of thousands so that's just
a set phrase that we use we it's
hundreds
of thousands tens of thousands so don't
forget that s
it's very important and let me remind
you that you're not just looking
for punctuation errors you're also
looking for spelling errors
and grammatical errors so keep that in
mind when you're revising
now i want you to help me figure out
what's wrong with the other four
let me know in the comments section why
you think these aren't
quite right
bonus points the person who gets it
right first
if you want to keep practicing your
writing skills make sure you check out
our toefl course on
e2language.com sign up for free today
and you'll get access to
hundreds of practice questions
assessments with
feedback one-on-one tutorials with our
toefl experts
and a timed mini mock test
thank you so much for joining me today
and i'll see you in the next one
bye
[Music]
you